

a manifesto for organizing cells of musicians

the manifold will

1. be explicitly revolutionary, anti-colonialist, anti-capitalist, 
anarchist (anarchism loosely defined as moving toward autonomy,
self-determination for oppressed peoples, collective
ownership of the means of production, and non-statist
solutions to social problems)
it will be revolutionary in the sense of building, learning and
imagining pathways for people to provide for each other
outside of the mechanisms of the capitalist state, 
and also revolutionary in the sense of seeking the
destruction of predatory and exploitative institutions in
music-making. 

2. be deliberately and openly disconnected from the apparatus of music
publishing, publicity and ESPECIALLY state funding.
No official social media. No promos.
No fundraisers (?)

3. take as one of its most important organizing principles
the providing of material resources to its members ACCORDING
TO THEIR NEED through direct redistribution and pooling of
resources. This means money, instruments, reading materials,
time, childcare, healthcare, community support...  

Any organization of this sort that doesn't provide for its
members is implicitly re-enacting classist barriers to entry
and is thus a bourgeouis fantasy of revolt. 

4. take as a given that the fate of revolutionary organizing
in this world is overdetermined; thus understand that it is
an intermediate, compromised, exploratory and incomplete 
step toward the future of equality that we want. Despite
inevitable failure, all attempts are extremely worth the
effort, in that we will be teaching ourselves to organize,
support each other, and be ready for the future.  

Thus, it will have a planned date of expiry /
re-negotiation, to account for its inevitable failings as a
revolutionary organization. it will not maintain the
damaging fantasy of an indefinitely continued struggle;
the only such struggle is international, across disciplines,
races, classes. The goal is not to be the whole revolution,
but to steal time to learn how to be revolutionaries, and
then find ways to merge with larger streams of international
organizing.

5. take as central that ideological purism is a useless
weapon in the world we live in; that all choices are
compromised under capitalism.

6. take as a central goal that music should be practiced by
the greatest number of willing people as possible, and as
much as possible together with each other. Tools and
materials must be made accessible, free and easy to
understand. 

7. not perform any gatekeeping functions around stylistic
choices or flawed notions of 'quality'.

8. make music for each other, in mutual love and
appreciation, and hope that if the apparatus that pits us
against each other is held at bay we will hear each other in
new and wonderful ways. 

9. be explicitly non-hierarchical. we will have to learn
what that means in practice, but we should strive to act to
divest power over each other, and to act with consensus and
consent.

10. recognize that the cultural mechanisms around music are
BOTH a) endlessly complicated and resistant to simple
analysis, especially materialist analysis
b) worthy of turning a political lens on, while remembering
that even so-called 'reactionary' music may be repurposed or
interpreted, and carries different valences across different
geo-cultural-political spheres. 'Music' is not a static set
of sounds but a circumstance of hearing, and thus there is
no objective political reality that is inherent to any
recorded sound independently of how it is contextualized and
reproduced.  

11. ready ourselves for when the skills of musicians
and media artists are called on in times of direct action.

