
'Cicily' 

let's see, I was born in 1989
raised by not wolves also not stories. 
I have ever since been at war with myself.  
my name is Cicily, 
and I have the urge to tell people everything.

when I was a girl, I was a girl
and when I wasn't, I was
when I was a fish, I was the sky
and when I was a fox, I was currency
and when I was the darkness in the forest,
I was dark,
and when I was the rays of the morning sun, 
through the crystal of pine needles, 
I was the idea 
	of the idea 
		of the idea 
			of a person.   

Cicily says '
play me a song.'

Cicily says '
the only wrong thing is to turn your heart away'

Cicily says '
words can break my bones, but what REALLY hurts is 
communication ' 

Cicily says '
I wish we could all just get along' 

Cicily says '
I could love that building so much that it bursts into flames' 

Cicily says '
it hurts too much, all of this care.
all of this attention. 
Look away, please. All I am is the idea
of the idea
	of the idea
		of the idea
			of the idea
				of the idea
					of the idea









Cicily says '
Let me suggest a truce.


	You stop moving.
and I'll stop speaking.


	You stop singing,
and I'll stop playing guitar.


	You stop putting your heart into the hands of strangers
and I'll never leave this place again. ' 

----------------------------------

'samuen' 

my ancestors lived in this valley. 

occupation. 6 months of the year I am the 
stretch of river between 3rd and 6th avenues
the other 6 months I work in a bakery

purpose. is a vacation leisure or is it a kind of work? 

ethnicity. Chinese
age. 35. 
do I think the what? 
oh. well, it's complicated right? 
and there's two sides to everything, but
I thought about the people who died and it made me sad

officer- 
do you think we will get to stop working, ever? 
will we love the way that is possible only in the rubble of this city?  
you're all I have, brother. when I put this knife into your kidney
all the doors will fling open. God said so. 

-----------------------------

Poem on the Birthday of Ila

when I am alone I 
have named you many things: 
smoke. glass. hair. the brightness
of evening
I never say these names somehow,
when we are together;
maybe because 
I am addressing who?
the date / the time / the lake / the sweat/ the sand?
or maybe because for so long, 
there has been a side of my heart resting
in the water with you
and if I gave that to words we would never
again have any time for laughing


--------------------------------

fire in the trees
dusk summer inside
all my doors are sealed

I have been the water
I have been the dead weed 
beneath the tide

--------------------------------
'got better' 

All the monsoon months I missed you
even though you were right there in the bed
wielding the unbroken shield of unconsciousness
there I was, unprotected and quite cold - and

I wanted to say that I hated to wake you just because I was lonely 
but I held my tongue and I woke you
and it just let every invader into the walls, the Myrmidons and the 
Jasons and 
I'm sorry. That was cowardly. I should have let the warrior sleep. 

One day you woke on your own and your toes were 
light across the sand like rain drops
then breaking across your expression,
the shield came up like an umbrella, 
thick and plated, metal and rusty and so strong, 
like the Odyssey or whoever it was 
broke through the walls and on the other side was me
doing my one move,
	which is crying
and it didn't happen then or the next time,
but eventually I could do it and you didn't
even wake up, I could just cry and cry and cry
and you got better.  
 

----------------------------------------------------
"the end of history"

1. humans are a bundle of unstructured preference.
2. the inevitable tumour at the end of history.
3. TURN OFF THE CAMERAS
4. TURN OFF THE FUCKING CAMERAS

-------------------------------------------------

"guitar talk"

the 60s Gibson SG is like, the perfect electric guitar. With a neck so slender and so heavy it pulls the head down into the ground, and that's where the rock and roll that's where Elvis is so it must be and when John Mclaughlin played it (although his had two necks, but I'm talking about the upper one) it sounded like the CIA burning the clouds. A compact roar, dry and rectangular a guitar for politics - beyond that the sex was just like, optional, and you admired the cherry red stain of the wood, the gain structure like a loan, crystal. I've had one since I was 19. I bought it with pay from the army from a coward and a liar, and for a year I only played like George Harrison, the worst George, and then for 15 years I only thought about playing. After that I left it in a different country: that makes the pickups sound better. and when I came back I could hear Sister Rosetta and Elvis and what they said: what the hell is that thing? that's not rock and roll. it's the wrong colour. 
