The Floating World: A Eulogy


At its peak the Floating World had maybe a few tens of listeners, many clustered around the Philadelphia area where it was born, and the Singapore area where it eventually ended up. As a piece of mass media, it failed to reach any sizeable audience. As a piece of what could be called art, it served as a kind of repository for my convictions about immanence, the city, decay, fantasy and rebirth. A lot of it was centred around vaguely science fiction related stories, soundscapes, and collages that suggested dreams and otherworldly places. Sadly, I think its time may be up. 

The Floating World began as a love letter: Philadelphia opened its arms to me and closed its arms to me, putting my many identities into conflict with each other, holding me and wearing me down. I was a child of basements, community theatres, noise shows, backyard beat parties and I felt grateful to have been allowed into such intimacies. The floating world began as a documentation of these intimacies. 

I told my friend Monk 'I'm less interested in this being good than I am in this being weird.' and that 'I want to see what this sounds like when we reach episode 99. between now and then is whatever'. And the weirdness, the willingness to go to the places that appear only in the corner of your vision, was its heart: The beat of insect wings played against the neighbour's boombox blasting Amazing Grace in dead summer coupled with the sound of me dragging a bag of clothes down the street- all live, real sweat, real mosquitoes. Someone singing to themself in a laundromat. There were corners in Philadelphia that could hold you. 

This is all to say I had good reasons to make TFW and I stand by them. The 7+1 extant episodes are a part of my life, flaws and all, successes and all. (I'm particularly fond of the chorale at the end of ep. 6) 

A few complicated things happened since then. I left Philadelphia. Here's a poem I wrote about it: 

“leaving Philadelphia” 

pacific ocean,
container of the wetness of my dreams, 
colder and harsher than the other one,
home of the islands of the war and the dreams 
of the islands in the war -

sadly, when I left Philadelphia, 
I took the other
			way
					home


As the years went on I found each episode taking longer and longer, getting further and further apart.

I moved back to Singapore, a manicured swimming pool of bad faith. I started to lose my wonder for the city. I watched the art circles I was in write themselves into powerlessness, the gig economy nightmare expand exponentially, some of my vile relatives continuing to live the good life despite all that. It's just capitalism working. It's just civilization disintegrating.  

And my increasing conviction alongside this disintegration is that the beautiful species of human beings deserves more than ever to live free of civilisation. To learn what that means in practice is difficult. I am not a primitivist. But I am pessimistic about human organization, fundamentally so, and cities are fundamentally that. So I have lost my feelings for them, as sites for stories or relationships or wonder, as places to live, or as places to invest in. I am taking a walk in Bukit Batok late in the evening. Insofar as there is familiarity, or movement, or joy, or romance, or comfort, it is not integral to the city scape. It only occurs in the rupture, the weeds growing out of cracks in the pavement, the dumpster that has caught fire and melted into a billion geometric manifolds. And YES, the city's decay is integral to the city as a site of continual production, that's how culture works. The graffiti is more New York than the subway train it is painted on. That was what TFW was about. But increasingly I don't wish for liminal decay cycles. I wish for the end of all cities.


Where does this leave us? Well, the immediate cessation of any further work on future episodes, for one. But I wish it to go gracefully. Kia Yee and I worked hard on episode 8, and recorded a bunch of fun material which should not go to waste, even as I dismantle the frame I intended to put them in. We had a blast reading old Ada Lovelace's correspondences and imagining her doing a cooking show, and some how these will be available piece meal. 
For those for whom TFW served mostly as a soundscape, I'm sure someday I will produce something that has similar sonic qualities.

After this, I hope to embark on a different kind of thing, one more functional and clear of purpose, one less full of thoughts and more full of joy. I no longer wish to wonder whether the distance across water brings us closer or further apart. I wish to pour the water onto the weeds as they explode through the sidewalk.  

To the handful of hard core listeners, I see you and appreciate you. You kept me going.
